---
title: 0.41.0 Release
description: Major updates!
slug: 0.41.0-release
authors: cintari
tags: [releases]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Power ups - bombs, ice blasts, and shockwaves!
New HUD - action indicators, and more!
Breaking changes - remapped keys and changed some script outputs

<!-- truncate -->

## Chests

There are now treasure chests that appear. These chests contain powerups that will give your player a special attack. Chests must be broken open.

## Power Ups

Use an equipped power up with the action `special`. There is a cooldown and you can check by the property `level_data.own_player.is_special_ready`

### Bomb

Bombs will be dropped behind the player. Be careful! Their explosion can injure the player that dropped the bomb.

These will show up in `level_data.hazards`

### Freeze

This gives the player the ability to shoot icicles in the direction they are traveling. If hit by an icicle, a player or enemy will be frozen in place.

These will show up in `level_data.hazards` and `level_data.enemies/players/is_frozen`

### Shockwave

Releasing a shockwave will push all enemies, players, and bombs away from the player.

These will show up in `level_data.players.unleashing_shockwave` and `level_data.enemies/players/is_pushed`

## HUD Updates

Easily select the play mode you want to use.

Action indicators will highlight what action is being called by script, api, or manual mode.

## Breaking changes

- manual mode keys remapped
- Script action to use the shield went from `raise_shield` to `shield`
